README.md, before:

# STA695
Course Materials for STA 695

## Register Github and Get Github **Student Developer Pack** (important)
Github Education has an excellent developer package for students including $150 Amzaon Web Service (AWS) credits, which we will need for our class. Through this package, students can also get their monthly fee waived for creating private repositories. There are many awesome developing softwares included as well.

1. Everyone should register for a Github account at <https://github.com/>.
2. To get Github Education **Student Developer Pack**
    - Go to <https://education.github.com/pack>, and click on **request a discount**.
    - Login your Github account, fill out necessary information and associate it with a **uky** email address.
    - Your **uky** email address will receive a welcome email. Click into the link under **Student Developer Pack** in your email. Click on **Get your pack** in the popped page. Now you will now see **unique link** under each software. We will need this for our $150 AWS credits.
3. To get $150 AWS credit
    + You first need to register for a AWS account at <https://aws.amazon.com/>. Once you succeed, you will have a 12-digit Account ID. We will use this Account ID to link with AWS Educate registration for our $150 credits. (You might need to input your debit/credit card information, but no charges will be processed if you don't use any paid service.)
    + Click into the **unique link** under AWS Educate from <https://education.github.com/pack>.
    + Select Student and fill out your school information including your uky email.
    + **Don't select AWS Educate Starter Account**, you will only receive $75 for this option.
    + Select the fist option and input your 12-digit AWS Account ID you just registered.
    + Once your student account get approved, your **uky** email will receive an email with $150 credit promotional code inside.

4. To redeem your $150 AWS credit
    + Visit: <https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/credits>
    + Follow the instructions and enter your promo code that you get from the application approve email.
    
The $150 AWS credit will expire in one year. Always keep an eye on your AWS account. Shut down the terminal if you are not using it, otherwise it may induce a huge fee.

## Useful Resources
### Git Tutorials
+ 15 min interactive Git tutorial at <https://try.github.io/levels/1/challenges/1>

### Run Jupyter Notebook from AWS
+ <https://doyleax.github.io/Run-Jupyter-Notebook-from-EC2/>

### Basic Unix/Linus Shell Commands
+ <https://www-xray.ast.cam.ac.uk/~jss/lecture/computing/notes/out/commands_basic/>
+ <https://www.liquidweb.com/kb/new-user-tutorial-basic-shell-commands/>

### Switch Between R & Python in Jupyter Notebook
+ <https://www.datacamp.com/community/blog/jupyter-notebook-r>

### Markdown Cheatsheet & Tutorial
To create nice markdown reports (files with “**.md**” extension), it's very useful to learn some sytaxes.

The following interactive tutorial only takes about 10 minutes to finish.
- <http://commonmark.org/help/tutorial/>

The markdown cheatsheet can be found below.
- <https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet>
- <https://guides.github.com/pdfs/markdown-cheatsheet-online.pdf>

Commit message:

Youtube videos for jupyter notebook and EC2

README.md, after:

# STA695
Course Materials for STA 695

## Register Github and Get Github **Student Developer Pack** (important)
Github Education has an excellent developer package for students including $150 Amzaon Web Service (AWS) credits, which we will need for our class. Through this package, students can also get their monthly fee waived for creating private repositories. There are many awesome developing softwares included as well.

1. Everyone should register for a Github account at <https://github.com/>.
2. To get Github Education **Student Developer Pack**
    - Go to <https://education.github.com/pack>, and click on **request a discount**.
    - Login your Github account, fill out necessary information and associate it with a **uky** email address.
    - Your **uky** email address will receive a welcome email. Click into the link under **Student Developer Pack** in your email. Click on **Get your pack** in the popped page. Now you will now see **unique link** under each software. We will need this for our $150 AWS credits.
3. To get $150 AWS credit
    + You first need to register for a AWS account at <https://aws.amazon.com/>. Once you succeed, you will have a 12-digit Account ID. We will use this Account ID to link with AWS Educate registration for our $150 credits. (You might need to input your debit/credit card information, but no charges will be processed if you don't use any paid service.)
    + Click into the **unique link** under AWS Educate from <https://education.github.com/pack>.
    + Select Student and fill out your school information including your uky email.
    + **Don't select AWS Educate Starter Account**, you will only receive $75 for this option.
    + Select the fist option and input your 12-digit AWS Account ID you just registered.
    + Once your student account get approved, your **uky** email will receive an email with $150 credit promotional code inside.

4. To redeem your $150 AWS credit
    + Visit: <https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/credits>
    + Follow the instructions and enter your promo code that you get from the application approve email.
    
The $150 AWS credit will expire in one year. Always keep an eye on your AWS account. Shut down the terminal if you are not using it, otherwise it may induce a huge fee.

## Useful Resources
### Git Tutorials
+ 15 min interactive Git tutorial at <https://try.github.io/levels/1/challenges/1>

### Run Jupyter Notebook from AWS
+ <https://doyleax.github.io/Run-Jupyter-Notebook-from-EC2/>

### Easy to follow youtube video on setting up EC2 and Jupyter Notebook
+ Part 1: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3KHI5mBV8MY
+ Part 2: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l53QjtPvF_A
+ Part 3: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HJ_ayBsZytg
+ Part 4: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YBdYTgwb2OM

### Basic Unix/Linus Shell Commands
+ <https://www-xray.ast.cam.ac.uk/~jss/lecture/computing/notes/out/commands_basic/>
+ <https://www.liquidweb.com/kb/new-user-tutorial-basic-shell-commands/>

### Switch Between R & Python in Jupyter Notebook
+ <https://www.datacamp.com/community/blog/jupyter-notebook-r>

### Markdown Cheatsheet & Tutorial
To create nice markdown reports (files with “**.md**” extension), it's very useful to learn some sytaxes.

The following interactive tutorial only takes about 10 minutes to finish.
- <http://commonmark.org/help/tutorial/>

The markdown cheatsheet can be found below.
- <https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet>
- <https://guides.github.com/pdfs/markdown-cheatsheet-online.pdf>
